So let's now understand how we can add and use such media queries in our project. Before we do that,
let me quickly copy our meta viewport tag right here and make sure that we also have it in all the
other index.html files
because of course, we want to make sure that our entire website is responsive and not just the starting
page.
So let's see in the customers folder right here,
we have the meta tag already,
so no need to add it right here
but I think in the packages folder,
yes right here, we have to add it,
so let's maybe add it right here as the third meta tag we have.
So with the viewport meta tag being added to our pages, we can now focus on to our responsive design
by using media queries.
For that, I will focus onto the starting page, so we will need the main.css file, this one right
here. On our website,
we will leave the mobile view right here because as we now added this viewport meta tag, we can also
play around with this developer tool right here to change the width of our page and to make sure that
we kind of simulate our look on a mobile device and you can always do this by having a look at
the pixels right here that indicates the width that we have in pixels.
We will dive deeper into how you can think about these limits and which limits you want to have different
styles for
but for the moment, I will just say that we will define a style which looks maybe good, right here for
350 pixels up to, let's say round about 40rem,
this would be 640 pixels,
so right there.
So that's the goal,
basically I want to have a design which looks good from let's say here,
this will be a really small device, let's maybe say 250 pixels width like that, up to 640
pixels right here.
So up to here, we want to have a design that looks nice and then we want to change our design,
for example increase the font size right here, because we say that starting from 640 pixels, we have a bigger
device, a tablet or actually, a desktop device
even, so we can use the space we have.
And what do we want to change?
Well of course we want to change the nav bar up here because it doesn't look good but we will change
that later
but right now on the main page, we have to change our image because I would like to make sure that the
height of our image increases once we hit that 640 pixels border right here.
Then I want to change the font size, so the font size of the slogan, this is always equal
and this should increase once we hit that 640 pixels limit
and of course the plans right here, because these are not organized quite nicely at the moment.
So we should make sure that once we are below the 640 pixels, that the plans are not displayed next to
each other but below each other.
Additionally, I would also like to change the style of the footer down here because maybe the footer should
be displayed above each other on the smaller design
and once we are in our bigger design, it should be displayed the way it is right now.
Now again, this sounds kind of abstract at the moment,
so let's have a look at that step-by-step, add a media query and see how it works and then dive deeper
step-by-step. And for that, we need a starting point and the starting point now is, as I said in the last
lecture, the mobile first design.
This means all our code right here,
so all the code we have in our main.css file is now supposed to work in a way that it looks nice on
our mobile view or what we define as the mobile view.
In our case, the mobile view, so the starting point, is everything below 640 pixels
and this is how we will approach it.
I will now style the website in a way that it looks good,
for example right here and right there,
so for different widths, this should look good on all these sizes and then we will add a media query
which will then change the design to make sure it looks also nice or even different on devices which
are equal or bigger to a width of 640 pixels, 40rem.
Now let's start with the slogan right here because I said that I would like to change the font size
of the slogan because on smaller devices, I think that the slogan should be a bit bigger.
So for that, we can go back to our code right here,
so as I said I'm in the main.css file and maybe first cut out this section title right here and add it
below the product overview h1 selector.
That's not necessary actually,
I just want to make sure that we have the product overview ID selector,
so this is basically this one right here which contains the image and the slogan and the product
overview h1 selector which contains the slogan below each other.
However, I would like to change the font size of our slogan, so let's add the font size property, right
here
and let's set it to maybe 1.6rem.
Let's see if this looks good, like that and let's reload the page now, did you see it?
It's now slightly bigger,
we know how this works,
if we inspect that now, we can see that slogan now has a font size of 1.6rem. So we now change the font
size but
it stays the same right,
no matter how big our device is, the width doesn't have an impact on this slogan right here and that's where
the media queries come into play
because if we go back to our own code and simply add the following code to it, add media, this simply initializes
the media query and tells the code that this is a media query,
then we have to specify an if statement
basically, that's how you can imagine that.
This simply tells you if this condition is met, then please apply the following code and our condition
right here will be a min width right, of 40rem. Have a note at the way
I wrote this code, so you write the condition you want to have, so min width, then the colon and then
the width that you want to specify.
This simply means as soon as the width of our device in software in CSS pixels, is equal or larger
than 40rem, then this media query should kick in
and what does kicking in mean?
Well, we simply have to write normal CSS code now,
this means we need a selector and then we can specify the properties that should change as soon as this
condition is met,
for example we want to change the font size of our product overview h1 ID selector right here because
on larger devices, I would like to increase the font size a bit more.
So what we can do now is we can copy our ID selector, now write
again the normal CSS code, that's important.
You can see the curly braces right here of the media query
and inside this curly braces, I now simply add a normal CSS rule. So we can now say that we want to have
a font size of let's say maybe 3rem, not 4, 3rem right here, like that.
If I do this now and reload the page, you can see that our font size increased.
Why did it increase?
Well because the width of our website was equal or in that case, above to 640 pixels.
If I now decrease the window, can you see it? As soon as we are below 640 pixels, the font size jumps back
to our initial code and the initial code is this one
right here, the code that we specified and that's actually the core idea of such a media query. We will
dive deeper into what we can change right here
and if we can also add other rules right there basically,
so other if statements, we can do that of course but that's actually the media query type we will use throughout
this course and also the one you would normally use
and that's important, if you follow this mobile first approach
I was talking about because that's the idea behind it. You simply start by creating your code in
a look that is equal to the one we want to have for your mobile users
and as soon as this looks nice, you'll simply add such a media query right here,
define a limit,
so whenever you say OK, as soon as the width is equal or bigger than a specific limit, I'm no longer on
a mobile device
and then you just add the selectors and the properties you want to change for your desktop devices
for example. We will also see that we can have multiple of these definitions right here, so we can not
only have the mobile or desktop device, we could add a lot of different rules basically and a lot of
different limits or borders we have right here which specify different properties for different device
widths.
But as I said, we will have a look at all that in the next lecture,
let's focus on to this media query now and add a bit more code because of course, we are not limited to the
font size right here,
we can basically change any property in such media queries. For our slogan right here,
this is not required though
but we can also add another selector because we could also say we add our product overview selector right
here,
this ID selector which basically targets the image
and we could place it above right here
and now also change some properties for this image. Which properties could this be?
Well if we have look at the image right here on the bigger devices, we could say well we have more space
available, so why don't we also increase the size or the height of the image and maybe also change the
position of it a bit,
this could be two things that we can simply change.
So let's for example add the height property right here, like that, because we initially have a height
of our image of 33vh,
so 33% of the viewport.
Why don't we change that height a bit and increase it to 40vh,
like that? If we do that
and let me decrease the size right here
or let's maybe keep it the way it is.
If we reload the page now, you can see that the height of the image now also changed.
If we inspect that right here, you can see that the image height is now 40vh.
If we decrease the size, can you see it? Both the font size and the image decrease, because we are below our
media query limit that we specified
and therefore, the height again is 33vh.
That's basically how it works and we can also add another property,
as I said we are not limited to one single property,
we could also add the background position property right here,
like that and we have left 10% and bottom 70% right here,
why don't we just change that to let's say 50% and 25% for example? You can of course choose
any value you want. But the important thing is that if we now increase the size and reload the page, we can see
that the position of the image changed now and important,
this is also only true if we are, as you can see it, above or equal to our 640 pixels
or 40rem limit that we specified.
And with that, you actually already understood the basic concept behind such media queries. A media query
simply allows you to define a specific condition, an if condition as you can imagine it
and once this condition is true, you can change one or multiple properties of the selector of your choice.
And as you can imagine, this is a really powerful tool which allows you to easily create responsive
websites.
However before we dive deeper and apply more and more media queries, I would like to take a closer look
at the media query itself,
so let's have a look at the media queries and how they work and what they do in the next lecture.